Let me get things pranked up here.
Yeah, what do you want to tell me? What you gonna ask me?
That makes no difference though.
Basically, how long have you been living in your cross planes?
I've been living in cross planes. I've lived here since 1922.
That would be about...
good for that to be far, isn't it?
Yeah.
I was a boy here and went to college and came back.
Took over the newspaper, got out of college one day and took over the newspaper here the next one.
Been here all the while. I retired from the newspaper about...
oh, eight or nine years ago.
When did I first meet him? Well, as a boy, I knew him here.
When he was a boy,
my heart would be about four or five years old.
I guess he'd be about... I'm seventy years old.
My heart would be about seventy four or five now, I think.
I could check that out for you,
but possibly you got that information at hand.
When did you...
I knew him at...
I started to high school.
I came in here, moved here from a nearby town
and entered high school as about a sophomore.
And in those days, we only had ten grades here
and they were not affiliated. And Howard went down to Brown
to finish his high school work in order to be qualified
in order to enter college.
When you came back to
Cross Plains after going to college
and you started over the newspaper...
That was in July. I took over the newspaper in July 1930. Howard was here at the time.
He was a young man, some...
I was twenty years old and Howard must have been twenty-four or five.
He was writing for a bunch of
pulp magazines just getting started.
Very few people remember the names of those magazines, but it was
Stone Street and Smith. They published a number of magazines,
like Weird Tales.
Weird Tales was one of them, I believe, and
Boxing and The West, The Wild West, and a lot of stuff like that.
He mainly wrote for Weird Tales, but he also
occasionally wrote for...he's either a ring or something.
He occasionally wrote for Boxing magazine, too.
Yeah, we were talking to Ms. Laughlin. She said sometimes he would go down the streets there,
shadow boxing, sort of doing
little... Yeah, I imagine that's more or less exaggerated. Howard
was a little on the odd side.
He wasn't an animal with very many people. He was rather a loof. But he was a big
robust man. To me, he was a combination of
Edgar Allen Poe and Jack London, if you can imagine that
two together. Yeah, he had those books in his library,
so I can imagine that pretty well. He was very robust,
like Jack London. He was
a majestine. A majestine. A majestine like Poe,
and once he wrote a few poems, maybe
you're familiar with the one called The Temptress.
The Temptor. He wrote a very good...
It reminds you of Poe's Raven, something, the meter of it, something like that.
In that he compares the Temptor as a beautiful
maiden who lures him. Her name
is Suicide. Yeah, I do believe I have read that one.
Yeah, I'm sure you've read it. We're very many people
in cross planes aware that Howard was a writer or a writer, I guess.
Oh, they all knew it. I published in the newspaper, you know, there wasn't a lot.
I'd say Robert Howard had a story this week and weird tales
or some of those problem magazines. Yeah, they knew it.
Yeah, yeah, I take it being a small town, I guess, just about everybody knew everything else.
Oh, yeah, that's right. And his daddy was a doctor here,
a country doctor, general practitioner, well thought of, very popular
and
his father was proud of the fact that his son was a gifted writer.
He talked about it.
Yeah.
Well, let's see. I'm about to run through my gambit of questions here.
Is there anything in particular stories you know about Mr. Howard being
that you were a newspaper man and everything? He might have had
some exploits out there. I remember
the morning he killed himself very well.
It was,
I can't think just when it was,
I know it was a warm season of the year, it must have been summer. But anyway,
early in the summer, 10, 11 o'clock morning
I heard on the street that Robert Howard had just shot himself
when I immediately jumped in my car and ran down there
and got down there and a few neighbors had gathered.
It wasn't generally known over town, but the old
justice of the peace was standing there on the
gallery, the front porch. When I walked up he called me and said,
come here Jack. And I stepped up there and he took me into the bedroom
and he pointed to an old Underwood type writer
who had the four lines written on it there. And Howard
had, when he had been told that his mother wouldn't
live throughout the day,
he went to this top writer, wrote these four lines, walked outside,
sat down his car and shot his head off. And this old J.P. asked me
what these four lines meant. They said, I'm sure
you've read them all, flat all done, so let me on the power. The feast
is over, the lambs expire.
Yeah, we have read that. I'm sure you've read that.
To me, I've been told since then by Sprague de Kemp
that the lines are not entirely original.
But they were certainly original as far as I'd ever heard, or anybody else had ever talked to
except Sprague de Kemp. Yeah, I imagine that's
was Howard's way of putting it.
Yeah, that was his melodic reen.
His finale.
Well, Mr. Scott, I can't think of anything else. Can you think of any other
bold thing? I'll tell you, you've got a son of Aaron Odessa. I'll tell you a young man there,
an Odessa, you can pick up on the telephone and call him and know him.
His name is J. Brown, B-A-U-M.
He's a man he's 70 years old, he's just my age, but
as a boy, he knew Robert Howard.
His name is J. Baum. J. Brown.
B-R-O-D-N-E Brown.
B-A-U-M. His son is a
loan officer and one of the
loan associations out there. I don't know which one.
Yeah, I'll see if I can track him down too.
Well, we
talked with Charlotte Laughlin and some other people in Brownwood who were doing
some research on Howard. Have you talked to CFB
or? No, sir, we talked to Jack Scott.
Yeah, I know Jack. They're in cross planes and he referred
us to you and your brother.
And what we're mainly just looking for are just some
old, some interesting stories
or any reminiscences you might have about Mr. Howard.
Well, yes, I'd be glad to tell you what I know about him.
I try to think of some things that happened.
He was a
unusual fella. I know that. Have you read
some of his stories? Yes, I have. What type of person was he?
Well, he was kind of a loner.
And I'll just
recount on it. I don't think he ever went for the girl at all.
But he wrote some pretty outstanding
stories.
Well, as I say
in the, I recall
some of the stories he wrote when he was
in high school. And they were really
outstanding. But he never did.
He really wasn't in our group. He was kind of a
outsider. Yes, he was readily accepted. But I remember one time
we were having a party and
I was running a little rental store there in cross planes
and we were having a party upstairs.
Robert came and we were
drinking some beer, choc beer or something
as way back before prohibition.
And I know he got very upset about
that he got a little bit tired and
he said that he'd kill anybody that interfered with his
hands. If his hands ever got
damaged by somebody else, he'd kill him.
Hello? Yes, sir.
And that was just kind of, it kind of
probably was kind of morose.
And he thought he had a real bright future and he had a
writer.
And I don't think I ever saw him after that
until I heard he had committed suicide, didn't he? Yes, he did.
In 1936. I knew his father
real well. I didn't know his mother much. I know he was an only child, I believe.
And
he never did
enter into any of our activities
very much as I remember. So I don't really know
what I could just say to you that would help you.
Well, what you've already told us is quite a bit of help. Why do you suppose he was such a loner?
Being in a small town and usually everybody, you know, does things so much
together. I don't know. I don't know. He just
he could have been a great author, I think.
He had a, I don't remember
even what kind of grades he made at the
academic. I know I
took a
idea, he had a story and tried to write a theme on it and he had already turned it
and I got in big trouble as you know,
trying to steal his ideas.
And that kind of
I never did try that anymore again, but I know he could tell a story
that was really, this was something about
a bear who got up in the attic or something
and broke through and disturbed some poker players.
But then I really can't
tell you very much about Robert. I'm kind of thinking of it.
There's another writer, C.F. Boz. I don't know if he ever heard
of him or not. No, sir?
Out of town, Jack didn't mention C.F.
No, I don't believe so, no. Well, why did Jack tell you about him?
Mostly he had worked
a little bit for Jack on the newspaper and
Jack talked about what type of person he was.
He was a rigorous man although he kept to himself quite a bit.
I wish Jack could recall more about that party, but
I know he scared the hell out of all of us because he
got really excited and always trying to
damage his writing career or something, getting him full of beer.
I don't recall exactly what, but anyway
he said he'd kill anybody
that damaged
his hands anyway. I think I remember that pretty vividly.
I don't know, maybe something happened there with his hands.
Maybe we got it, uh, racking the match or something.
I don't know. But anyway, he
wanted to write for his hands.
That was very interesting.
You don't happen to write like any other things that you might have done
with Howard back when we were living in Cross. Well, I could say he wasn't in our group.
We went fishing and we went swimming in the
bow there and we hunted quail and but
he was never one of us. And now he happened
to be in this deal. I don't know, I don't think he ever had
the date with a girl. He was a nice looking guy.
Very presentable and tall and
well made.
And even if I talk to you, I can't
really tell you anything much that I remember about him except that
I remember him being a very outstanding, that he would have been a great
writer I think. Listen, what you've told me so far has
been quite helpful. We're putting together just bits and pieces of
people who did know him along with some research that some other people have done
and I'd like to go ahead and put your
recollections of that party and some of the other things you said into our program.
Well, that's
authentic but I can't quite recall the details
of what happened to his hands. Maybe we were
armwrestling or something. I don't know.
But he got very uptight
about what might happen to
one of his hands or his arms or something.
I guess that was the only time he ever had a drink of beer
in his life. It sounded like what I was going to talk about with some of the other people
that he might have been insecure.
Well, I think so. He was an only child. I don't know how
close he was with his mother but I don't think his father had anything to do with
him. This was my kind of
feeling, I don't know.
Dr. Howard was a real fine man though.
I don't know how close they were together but
I think that he worshipped his mother
was my impression in those years.
I don't know if she died first or not.
She had gone into a coma
and was not expected to recover.
Oh, well now that's the reason for his suicide.
Because he worshipped her. I know
I'm almost sure of that.
But he worshipped his mother.
I know that her
condition affected him very much.
I know that he was
real afraid that something wasn't happening that he
couldn't write it. Whether it was mind
or whether it was his mind or whether it was in his fear that something
would happen to his hands. But that seems to
be the reason I recall more vivid than anything else.
I certainly do appreciate your talking with me.
And I believe I was the one that
I believe that he could have strangled me to death.
I don't recall whether it was me or somebody else
but it seems to me like his anger was
toward me.
But I know he's writing the hell out of it.
He was a very big and strong fellow.
Yes, very strong. Could have twisted your neck off.
Much like the heroes that he wrote about.
If you would give me your address
I'll send you a release form. What that does is
you give us permission to use what I've been taping.
Oh well, that doesn't matter to me. I don't care if I use it or not.
I'm just trying to be honest with you. I have no
hold on. You can quote me anyway you want to.
As I say, it's been a long time ago but those are my recollections and I've often
thought up. I've made a real strong impression
on these that I was in real danger there.
Fortunately you made it through it.
I know that other things have happened to me that
I guess almost is dangerous but then anyway that's
what I remember about Robert.
He was all at with
no problems apparently.
No attachments that I know of to anybody except
for the people who were there.
Thank you.